=== buera_2009.pdf ===
AnnFinance(2009)5:443–464 DOI10.1007/s10436-009-0121-2 SYMPOSIUM A dynamic model of entrepreneurship with borrowing constraints: theory and evidence FranciscoJ.Buera Received:28January2008/Accepted:4March2009/Publishedonline:5April2009 ©TheAuthor(s)2009.ThisarticleispublishedwithopenaccessatSpringerlink.com Abstract Does wealth beget wealth and entrepreneurship, or is entrepreneurship mainlydeterminedbyanindividual’sability?Alargeliteraturestudiestherelation- shipbetweenwealthandentrytoentrepreneurshiptoinformthisquestion.Thispaper showsthatinadynamicmodel,theexistenceoffinancialconstraintstothecreation of businesses implies a non-monotonic relationship between wealth and entry into entrepreneurship:theprobabilityofbecominganentrepreneurasafunctionofwealth isincreasingforlowwealthlevels—aspredictedbystandardstaticmodels—butitis decreasing for higher wealth levels. U.S. data are used to study the qualitative and quantitativepredictionsofthedynamicmodel.Thewelfarecostsofborrowingcon- straintsarefoundtobesignificant,around6%oflifetimeconsumption,andaremainly due to undercapitalized entrepreneurs (intensive margin), rather than to able people notstartingbusinesses(extensivemargin). Keywords Entrepreneurship·Occupationalchoice·Financialconstraints·Savings behavior JELClassification D91·D92·G00·J22·J23 1 Introduction Doeswealthbegetwealthandentrepreneurship,orisentrepreneurshipmainlydeter- minedbyanindividual’sability?Alargeempiricalliteraturehasstudiedtheimportance IthankFernandoAlvarez,GaryBecker,Pierre-AndréChiappori,MariacristinaDeNardi,XavierGine, JamesHeckman,BoyanJovanovic,RobertTownsend,andIvánWerningforvaluablecommentsand suggestions.Ialsobenefitedfromcommentsofparticipantsatvariousseminars. B F.J.Buera( ) UCLA,LosAngeles,USA e-mail:fjbuera@econ.ucla.edu 123 444 F.J.

=== cagetti_denardi_2003_wp620.pdf ===
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Research Department Entrepreneurship, Frictions and Wealth Marco Cagetti and Mariacristina De Nardi ∗ Working Paper 620 Revised August 2003 ABSTRACT Although the role of financial constraints on entrepreneurial choices has received considerable at- tention, the effects of these constraints on aggregate capital accumulation and wealth inequality are less known. Entrepreneurship is an important determinant of capital accumulation and wealth concentration and, conversely, the distribution of wealth affects entrepreneurial choices in presence of borrowing constraints. We construct a model that matches wealth inequality very well, both for entrepreneurs and non-entrepreneurs, and find that more restrictive borrowing constraints generate less wealth concentration, but also reduce average firm size, aggregate capital and the fraction of entrepreneurs. We also find that voluntary bequests are an important channel that allows some high-ability workers to establish or enlarge an entrepreneurial activity: with accidental bequests only, there would be fewer large firms, fewer entrepreneurs, and less aggregate capital, but also less wealth concentration. Marco Cagetti: University of Virginia, e-mail: cacio@virginia.edu; Mariacristina De Nardi: University of ∗ Minnesota and Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, e-mail: nardi@econ.umn.edu. We gratefully acknowl- edge funding from NSF. De Nardi also thanks the University of Minnesota Grant-in-Aid for funding. We are grateful to Marco Bassetto, V. V. Chari, Narayana Kocherlakota, Per Krusell, Ellen McGrattan, Victor Ríos—Rull, EmmanuelSaez,JenniSchoppers,andKjetilStoreslettenforhelpfulcomments. Theviewsofthis paper are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minnea

=== cagetti_denardi_2006_workingpaper.pdf ===
Estate Taxation, Entrepreneurship, and Wealth∗ Marco Cagetti Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System Mariacristina De Nardi Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and NBER Abstract We study the effects of abolishing estate taxation in a quantitative andrealisticframeworkthatincludesthekeyfeaturesthatpolicymakers are worried about: business investment, borrowing constraints, estate transmission,andwealthinequality. Weuseourmodeltoestimateeffec- tive estate taxation. We consider various tax instruments to reestablish fiscal balance when abolishing estate taxation. We find that abolish- ing estate taxation would not generate large increases in inequality, and would, insomecases, generateincreasesinaggregateoutputandcapital accumulation. If, however, the resulting revenue shortfall were financed through increased income or consumption taxation, the immensely rich, and the old among those in particular, would experience a welfare gain, at the cost of welfare losses for the vast majority of the population. ∗ We gratefully acknowledge financial support from NSF grants (respectively) SES- 0318014 and SES-0317872. De Nardi also thanks the University of Minnesota Grant-in-Aid forfunding. WearegratefultoGadiBarlevy,MarcoBassetto,LucaBenzoni,JeffCampbell, RobertE.Lucas,EllenMcGrattan,KulwantRai,IvanWerning,aneditor,threeanonymous referees, and to seminar participants at many institutions for helpful comments. The views herein are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, The Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Reserve System, or the National Science Foundation. 1 1 Introduction Since its introduction in 1916 the estate tax has been one of the most contro- versial taxes in the United States tax code. The estate tax opponents call it the “death

=== donovan_lu_schoellman_2020_sr596.pdf ===
STAFF REPORT No. 596 Labor Market Dynamics and Development March 2020 Kevin Donovan Yale School of Management Will Jianyu Lu Central Bank of Chile Todd Schoellman Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis DOI: https://doi.org/10.21034/sr.596 Keywords: Job flows; Job-finding rate; Separation rate; Selection JEL classification: O1, J6 The views expressed herein are those of the authors and not necessarily those of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis or the Federal Reserve System. Labor Market Dynamics and Development∗ Kevin Donovan† Will Jianyu Lu‡ Todd Schoellman§ March 2020 Abstract We build a dataset of harmonized rotating panel labor force surveys covering 42 countries across a wide range of development and document three new empiri- cal findings on labor market dynamics. First, labor market flows (job-finding rates, employment-exit rates, and job-to-job transition rates) are two to three times higher in the poorest as compared with the richest countries. Second, employment hazards in poorer countries decline more sharply with tenure; much of their high turnover can be attributed to high separation rates among workers with low tenure. Third, wage-tenure profiles are much steeper in poorer countries, despite the fact that wage- experience profiles are flatter. We show that these facts are consistent with theories with endogenous separation, particularly job ladder and learning models. We dis- aggregate our results and investigate possible driving forces that may explain why separation operates differently in rich and poor countries. JEL Classification Codes: O1, J6 Keywords: job flows, job-finding rate, separation rate, selection ∗Thispaperformerlycirculatedunderthetitle“LaborMarketFlowsandDevelopment.”Ithasbenefited from comments by Domenico Ferraro, Bart Hobijn, Henry 

=== fairlie_fossen_2019.pdf ===
NBER WORKING PAPER SERIES DEFINING OPPORTUNITY VERSUS NECESSITY ENTREPRENEURSHIP: TWO COMPONENTS OF BUSINESS CREATION Robert W. Fairlie Frank M. Fossen Working Paper 26377 http://www.nber.org/papers/w26377 NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH 1050 Massachusetts Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 October 2019 We thank Marco Caliendo, Emilio Congregado, Marie Mora, Jeremy Moulton, Barbara Robles, Herbert J. Schuetze, André van Stel, Ting Zhang, and participants at the 2017 ASSA/AEA Annual Meeting in Chicago, IL, for helpful comments and suggestions. Fairlie also thanks Stanford University (SIEPR) for support as a visiting scholar while working on the project. The views expressed herein are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Bureau of Economic Research. NBER working papers are circulated for discussion and comment purposes. They have not been peer-reviewed or been subject to the review by the NBER Board of Directors that accompanies official NBER publications. © 2019 by Robert W. Fairlie and Frank M. Fossen. All rights reserved. Short sections of text, not to exceed two paragraphs, may be quoted without explicit permission provided that full credit, including © notice, is given to the source. Defining Opportunity versus Necessity Entrepreneurship: Two Components of Business Creation Robert W. Fairlie and Frank M. Fossen NBER Working Paper No. 26377 October 2019 JEL No. J23,J64,L26 ABSTRACT A proposed explanation for why business creation is often found to increase in recessions is that there are two components to entrepreneurship – “opportunity” and “necessity” – the latter of which is mostly counter-cyclical. Although there is some agreement on the conceptual distinction between these two factors driving entrepreneurship, there is little

=== hurst_pugsley_2011.pdf ===
erik hurst University of Chicago benjamin wild pugsley University of Chicago What Do Small Businesses Do? ABSTRACT We show that most small business owners are very different from the entrepreneurs that economic models and policymakers often have in mind. Using new data that sample entrepreneurs just before they start their businesses, we show that few small businesses intend to bring a new idea to market or to enter an unserved market. Instead, most intend to provide an exist- ing service to an existing market. Further, we find that most small businesses have little desire to grow big or to innovate in any observable way. We show that such behavior is consistent with the industry characteristics of the major- ity of small businesses, which are concentrated among skilled craftspeople, lawyers, real estate agents, health care providers, small shopkeepers, and res- taurateurs. Lastly, we show that nonpecuniary benefits (being one’s own boss, having flexibility of hours, and the like) play a first-order role in the business formation decision. Our findings suggest that the importance of entrepreneurial talent, entrepreneurial luck, and financial frictions in explaining the firm size distribution may be overstated. We conclude by discussing the potential policy implications of our findings. e conomists and policymakers alike have long been interested in the effects of various economic policies on business ownership. In fact, the U.S. Small Business Administration is a federal agency whose main purpose, according to its mission statement, is to help Americans “start, build, and grow businesses.” Researchers and policymakers often either explicitly or implicitly equate small business owners with entrepreneurs. Although this association could be tautological, we show in this pa

=== petrongolo_pissarides_2001_workingpaper_2000.pdf ===
Abstract We survey the microfoundations, empirical evidence and estimation issues underlying the aggregate matching function. Several microeconomic matching mechanisms have been suggested in the literature with some successes but none is generally accepted as superior to all others. Instead, an aggregate matching function with hires as a function of vacancies and unemployment has been successfully estimated for several countries. The Cobb-Douglas restrictions with constant returns to scale perform well. Recent work has utilized disaggregated data to go beyond aggregate estimates, with many refinements and suggestions for future research. This paper was produced as part of the Centre's Technology and Growth Programme Looking Into the Black Box: A Survey of the Matching Function Barbara Petrongolo and Christopher A. Pissarides September 2000

=== poschke_2013_workingpaper_2012.pdf ===
Who becomes an entrepreneur? Labor market prospects and occupational choice∗ Markus Poschke† McGill University July 2012 Abstract Why do some people become entrepreneurs (and others don’t)? Why are firms so het- erogeneous, and many firms so small? To start, the paper briefly documents evidence from the empirical literature that the relationship between entrepreneurship and education is U- shaped; that many entrepreneurs start a firm “out of necessity”; that most firms are small, remainso,yetpersistinthemarket;andthatreturnstoentrepreneurshiphaveamuchlarger cross-sectional variance than returns to wage work. Popular models of firm heterogeneity cannot easily account for the U-shape or for the persistence of low-productivity firms. The paper shows that these facts can be explained in a dynamic model of occupational choice between wage work and entrepreneurship where agents are heterogeneous in their ability as workers, and starting entrepreneurs face uncertainty about their project’s productivity. Then, under weak conditions, the most and the least able individuals choose to become ∗I would like to thank the associate editor (Toshihiko Mukoyama) and two anonymous referees for detailed comments that helped improve the paper. I would also like to thank Andrea Caggese, Antonio Ciccone, Rus- sell Cooper, Douglas Gollin, Omar Licandro, Francesc Ortega, Morten Ravn, Thijs van Rens, Gregor Smith, JaumeVentura,andseminarparticipantsatMcGill,Concordia,theFederalReserveBankofNewYork,Queen’s, Pompeu Fabra, Warwick, City University London, the Third IZA/World Bank Conference on Employment and Development,theCanadianEconomicsAssociation2008Meeting,theXXXISimposiodeAna´lisisEcono´micoand the 21st EALE conference for valuable comments and suggestions. †Contact: McGill University, Econo

=== sedlacek_sterk_2017_repository_version.pdf ===
American Economic Review 2017, 107(10): 3182–3210 https://doi.org/10.1257/aer.20141280 The Growth Potential of Startups over the Business Cycle† By Petr Sedlácˇek and Vincent Sterk* This paper shows that employment in cohorts of US firms is strongly influenced by aggregate conditions at the time of their entry. Employment fluctuations of startups are procyclical, they persist into later years, and cohort-level employment variations are largely driven by differences in firm size, rather than the number of firms. An estimated general equilibrium firm dynamics model reveals that aggregate conditions at birth, rather than post-entry choices, drive the majority of cohort-level employment variation by affecting the share of startups with high growth potential. In the aggregate, changes in startup conditions result in large, slow-moving fluctua- tions in employment. JEL D25, E24, E32, J23, L25, M13 ( ) The number of firm startups in the United States fell sharply during the Great Recession.1 Given the importance of startups for aggregate job creation, the decline in entry might create a long-lasting drag on aggregate employment and output. In this paper, we show that the roughly two million startups which did enter during the downturn are not only less plentiful, but may also be weaker in their potential to create jobs in the future. Specifically, we document that firms born in cohorts with weak job creation upon entry tend to remain persistently smaller on average, even when the aggregate economy recovers. Underlying this pattern are changes in the types of startups with respect to their potential to grow large. Moreover, rather than fading out over time, decisions taken at the entry phase leave an increasingly large footprint on the macroeconomy as startups age. Using Busine
